Add Linux nrpe4 (#3108)
centreon/centreon-documentation: pp/integrations/plugin-packs/procedures/operatingsystems-linux-nrpe4.md

---
id: operatingsystems-linux-nrpe4
title: Linux NRPE3
---
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

## Pack assets

### Templates

The Monitoring Connector **Linux NRPE4** brings a host template:

* **OS-Linux-NRPE4-custom**

The connector brings the following service templates (sorted by the host template they are attached to):

<Tabs groupId="sync">
<TabItem value="OS-Linux-NRPE4-custom" label="OS-Linux-NRPE4-custom">

| Service Alias | Service Template             | Service Description                                                                                                                                |
|:--------------|:-----------------------------|:---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|

> | Cpu           | OS-Linux-Cpu-NRPE4-custom    | Check the rate of utilization of CPU for the machine. This check can give the average CPU utilization rate and the rate per CPU for multi-core CPU |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Cpu           | OS-Linux-Cpu-NRPE4-custom    | Check the rate of utilization of CPUs for the machine. This check can give the average CPU utilization rate and the rate per CPU for multi-core CPUs |
```

| Load          | OS-Linux-Load-NRPE4-custom   | Check the server load average                                                                                                                      |
| Memory        | OS-Linux-Memory-NRPE4-custom | Check the rate of the utilization of memory                                                                                                        |
| Ntp           | OS-Linux-Ntp-NRPE4-custom    | Check system time synchronization with NTP server                                                                                                  |

> | Protocol-NRPE4 | OS-Linux-Protocol-NRPE4-custom | Contrôle de la bonne configuration du protocole NRPE v4.    |

Reviewer: French

| Swap          | OS-Linux-Swap-NRPE4-custom   | Check virtual memory usage                                                                                                                         |
| Uptime        | OS-Linux-Uptime-NRPE4-custom | Time since the server has been working and available                                                                                               |

> The services listed above are created automatically when the **OS-Linux-NRPE4-custom** host template is used.

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Not attached to a host template" label="Not attached to a host template">

| Service Alias       | Service Template                          | Service Description                                                                                                                                         | Discovery  |
|:--------------------|:------------------------------------------|:------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:----------:|

> | Cmd-Generic         | OS-Linux-Cmd-Generic-NRPE4-custom         | Check exit code of linux commands                                                                                                                           |            |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Cmd-Generic         | OS-Linux-Cmd-Generic-NRPE4-custom         | Check exit code for Linux commands                                                                                                                           |            |
```

> | Connections-Generic | OS-Linux-Connections-Generic-NRPE4-custom | Check tcp/udp connections                                                                                                                                   |            |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Connections-Generic | OS-Linux-Connections-Generic-NRPE4-custom | Check TCP/UDP connections                                                                                                                                   |            |
```

> | Cpu-Detailed        | OS-Linux-Cpu-Detailed-NRPE4-custom        | Check the detailed rate of utilization of CPU for the machine. This check can give the average CPU utilization rate and the rate per CPU for multi-core CPU |            |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Cpu-Detailed        | OS-Linux-Cpu-Detailed-NRPE4-custom        | Check the detailed rate of utilization of CPUs for the machine. This check can give the average CPU utilization rate and the rate per CPU for multi-core CPUs |            |
```

| Disk-IO             | OS-Linux-Disk-IO-NRPE4-custom             | Check I/O counters of disks                                                                                                                                 |            |

> | Disks               | OS-Linux-Disks-NRPE4-custom               | Check the rate of free space on disks. For each checks the mount point of disks will appear                                                                 | X          |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Disks               | OS-Linux-Disks-NRPE4-custom               | Check the rate of free space on disks. For each check the mount point of disks will appear                                                                 | X          |
```

| File-Size-Generic   | OS-Linux-File-Size-Generic-NRPE4-custom   | Check file or/and directory sizes                                                                                                                           |            |
| Inodes              | OS-Linux-Inodes-NRPE4-custom              | Check the rate of free inodes on disks                                                                                                                      |            |
| Is-File-Generic     | OS-Linux-Is-File-Generic-NRPE4-custom     | Check if file 'xxx' is present                                                                                                                              |            |
| Is-Not-File-Generic | OS-Linux-Is-Not-File-Generic-NRPE4-custom | Check if file 'xxx' is not present                                                                                                                          |            |
| Open-Files          | OS-Linux-Open-Files-NRPE4-custom          | Check file or/and directory modification/creation/access times                                                                                              |            |

> | Packet-Errors       | OS-Linux-Packet-Errors-NRPE4-custom       | Check packets on errors/discards of multiple network interfaces                                                                                             |            |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Packet-Errors       | OS-Linux-Packet-Errors-NRPE4-custom       | Check packets in error/discarded from multiple network interfaces                                                                                             |            |
```

| Pending-Updates     | OS-Linux-Pending-Updates-NRPE4-custom     | Check systemd services status                                                                                                                               |            |
| Process-Generic     | OS-Linux-Process-Generic-NRPE4-custom     | Check Linux processes                                                                                                                                       |            |

> | Systemd-Journal     | OS-Linux-Systemd-Journal-NRPE4-custom     | Check the rate of utilization of CPU for the machine. This check can give the average CPU utilization rate and the rate per CPU for multi-core CPU          |            |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Systemd-Journal     | OS-Linux-Systemd-Journal-NRPE4-custom     | Check the rate of utilization of CPUs for the machine. This check can give the average CPU utilization rate and the rate per CPU for multi-core CPUs          |            |
```

| Systemd-Sc-Status   | OS-Linux-Systemd-Sc-Status-NRPE4-custom   | Check systemd services status                                                                                                                               |            |

> | Traffic             | OS-Linux-Traffic-NRPE4-custom             | Check the bandwidth of interfaces. For each checks the name of the interface will appear                                                                    | X          |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Traffic             | OS-Linux-Traffic-NRPE4-custom             | Check the bandwidth of interfaces. For each check the name of the interface will appear                                                                    | X          |
```

<TabItem value="Systemd-Journal" label="Systemd-Journal">

| Metric name           | Unit  |
|:----------------------|:------|
| journal.entries.count | count |

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Systemd-Sc-Status" label="Systemd-Sc-Status">

| Metric name                    | Unit  |
|:-------------------------------|:------|
| systemd.services.running.count | count |
| systemd.services.failed.count  | count |
| systemd.services.dead.count    | count |
| systemd.services.exited.count  | count |
| *sc*#status                    | N/A   |

> To obtain this new metric format, include **--use-new-perfdata** in the **EXTRAOPTIONS** service macro.

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Traffic" label="Traffic">

| Metric name                                     | Unit  |
|:------------------------------------------------|:------|
| *interface*#status                              | N/A   |
| *interface*#interface.traffic.in.bitspersecond  | b/s   |
| *interface*#interface.traffic.out.bitspersecond | b/s   |

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Uptime" label="Uptime">

| Metric name           | Unit  |
|:----------------------|:------|
| system.uptime.seconds | s     |

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Prerequisites

> Les prérequis ci-dessous sont indispendables pour que le connecteur de supervision puisse fonctionner correctement.

Reviewer: French

### Network flow

The NRPE protocol uses the TCP port 5666.

| Source | Destination    | Protocole | Port |
| ------ | -------------- | --------- | ---- |
| Poller | Hôte supervisé | TCP       | 5666 |

### System prerequisites

<Tabs groupId="sync">
<TabItem value="Alma / RHEL / Oracle Linux 8" label="Alma / RHEL / Oracle Linux 8">

> - Installing the agent.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Install the agent.
```

```bash
dnf -y install epel-release
dnf -y install nrpe
dnf -y config-manager --set-enabled 'powertools'
mkdir -p /var/lib/centreon/centplugins/
chown nrpe: /var/lib/centreon/centplugins/
```

> - Change the IP address of `allowed_hosts` dans **/etc/nagios/nrpe.cfg** (replace `POLLER_IP_ADDRESS` with the IP address of the poller that will monitor the host).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Change the IP address for the`allowed_hosts parameter in` **/etc/nagios/nrpe.cfg** (replace `POLLER_IP_ADDRESS` with the IP address of the poller that will monitor the host).
```

```bash
sed -i 's/dont_blame_nrpe=0/dont_blame_nrpe=1/'  /etc/nagios/nrpe.cfg
sed -i 's/allowed_hosts=127.0.0.1,::1/allowed_hosts=POLLER_IP_ADDRESS/' /etc/nagios/nrpe.cfg
```

> - Add the definition of the `check_centreon_plugins` command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Add the definition of the `check_centreon_plugins` command:
```

```bash
cat >/etc/nrpe.d/centreon-commands.cfg <<'EOF'
command[check_centreon_plugins]=/usr/lib/centreon/plugins/centreon_linux_local.pl --plugin=$ARG1$ --mode=$ARG2$ $ARG3$
EOF
```

> - Restart the service to apply the new configuration:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Restart the service to apply the new configuration:
```

```bash
systemctl restart nrpe
systemctl enable nrpe
```

> - To monitor **systemd-journal**, you must run:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. To monitor **systemd-journal**, run the following commands:
```

```bash
usermod -a -G systemd-journal nrpe
systemctl restart nrpe
```

> - To monitor **systemctl-sc** and **traffic**, you must run:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. To monitor **systemctl-sc** and **traffic**, run the following commands:
```

```bash
setenforce Permissive
sed -i 's/SELINUX=enforcing/SELINUX=disabled/' /etc/selinux/config
reboot
```

> - Add the Centreon plugins' repository:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. Add the Centreon plugins' repository:
```

name=Centreon plugins repository.
baseurl=https://packages.centreon.com/rpm-plugins/el8/stable/noarch/
enabled=1
gpgcheck=1
gpgkey=https://yum-gpg.centreon.com/RPM-GPG-KEY-CES
module_hotfixes=1

[centreon-plugins-testing]
name=Centreon plugins repository. (UNSUPPORTED)
baseurl=https://packages.centreon.com/rpm-plugins/el8/testing/$basearch/
enabled=0
gpgcheck=1
gpgkey=https://yum-gpg.centreon.com/RPM-GPG-KEY-CES
module_hotfixes=1

[centreon-plugins-testing-noarch]
name=Centreon plugins repository. (UNSUPPORTED)
baseurl=https://packages.centreon.com/rpm-plugins/el8/testing/noarch/
enabled=0
gpgcheck=1
gpgkey=https://yum-gpg.centreon.com/RPM-GPG-KEY-CES
module_hotfixes=1

[centreon-plugins-unstable]
name=Centreon plugins repository. (UNSUPPORTED)
baseurl=https://packages.centreon.com/rpm-plugins/el8/unstable/$basearch/ 
enabled=0 
gpgcheck=1 
gpgkey=https://yum-gpg.centreon.com/RPM-GPG-KEY-CES 
module_hotfixes=1 
 
[centreon-plugins-unstable-noarch] 
name=Centreon plugins repository. (UNSUPPORTED) 
baseurl=https://packages.centreon.com/rpm-plugins/el8/unstable/noarch/ 
enabled=0 
gpgcheck=1 
gpgkey=https://yum-gpg.centreon.com/RPM-GPG-KEY-CES 
module_hotfixes=1 
EOF 
```

> - Install the plugin :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
8. Install the plugin :
```

```bash
dnf install -y centreon-plugin-Operatingsystems-Linux-Local.noarch https://packages.centreon.com/artifactory/rpm-standard/23.04/el8/stable/noarch/RPMS/perl-cpan-libraries/perl-JSON-Path-0.5-2.el8.noarch.rpm
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Alma / RHEL / Oracle Linux 9" label="Alma / RHEL / Oracle Linux 9">

> - Install the agent.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Install the agent.
```

```bash
dnf -y install nrpe
dnf -y config-manager --set-enabled 'crb'
mkdir -p /var/lib/centreon/centplugins/
chown nrpe: /var/lib/centreon/centplugins/
```

> - Change the IP address of `allowed_hosts` dans **/etc/nagios/nrpe.cfg** (replace `POLLER_IP_ADDRESS` with the IP address of the poller that will monitor the host).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Change the IP address for the`allowed_hosts parameter in` **/etc/nagios/nrpe.cfg** (replace `POLLER_IP_ADDRESS` with the IP address of the poller that will monitor the host).
```

```bash 
sed -i 's/dont_blame_nrpe=0/dont_blame_nrpe=1/' /etc/nagios/nrpe.cfg 
sed -i 's/allowed_hosts=127.0.0.1,::1/allowed_hosts=POLLER_IP_ADDRESS/' /etc/nagios/nrpe.cfg 
``` 

> - Add the definition of the `check_centreon_plugins` command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Add the definition of the `check_centreon_plugins` command:
```

 
```bash
cat >/etc/nrpe.d/centreon-commands.cfg <<'EOF'
command[check_centreon_plugins]=/usr/lib/centreon/plugins/centreon_linux_local.pl --plugin=$ARG1$ --mode=$ARG2$ $ARG3$
EOF
```

> - Restart the service to apply the new configuration:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Restart the service to apply the new configuration:
```

```bash
systemctl restart nrpe
systemctl enable nrpe
```

> - To monitor **systemd-journal**, you must run:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. To monitor **systemd-journal**, run the following commands:
```

```bash
usermod -a -G systemd-journal nrpe
systemctl restart nrpe
```

> - Add the Centreon plugins' repository:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Add the Centreon plugins' repository:
```

name=Centreon plugins repository.
baseurl=https://packages.centreon.com/rpm-plugins/el9/stable/noarch/
enabled=1
gpgcheck=1
gpgkey=https://yum-gpg.centreon.com/RPM-GPG-KEY-CES
module_hotfixes=1

[centreon-plugins-testing]
name=Centreon plugins repository. (UNSUPPORTED)
baseurl=https://packages.centreon.com/rpm-plugins/el9/testing/$basearch/
enabled=0
gpgcheck=1
gpgkey=https://yum-gpg.centreon.com/RPM-GPG-KEY-CES
module_hotfixes=1

[centreon-plugins-testing-noarch]
name=Centreon plugins repository. (UNSUPPORTED)
baseurl=https://packages.centreon.com/rpm-plugins/el9/testing/noarch/
enabled=0
gpgcheck=1
gpgkey=https://yum-gpg.centreon.com/RPM-GPG-KEY-CES
module_hotfixes=1

[centreon-plugins-unstable]
name=Centreon plugins repository. (UNSUPPORTED)
baseurl=https://packages.centreon.com/rpm-plugins/el9/unstable/$basearch/
enabled=0
gpgcheck=1
gpgkey=https://yum-gpg.centreon.com/RPM-GPG-KEY-CES
module_hotfixes=1

[centreon-plugins-unstable-noarch]
name=Centreon plugins repository. (UNSUPPORTED)
baseurl=https://packages.centreon.com/rpm-plugins/el9/unstable/noarch/
enabled=0
gpgcheck=1
gpgkey=https://yum-gpg.centreon.com/RPM-GPG-KEY-CES
module_hotfixes=1
EOF
```

> - Install the plugin :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. Install the plugin :
```

```bash
dnf install -y centreon-plugin-Operatingsystems-Linux-Local.noarch https://packages.centreon.com/artifactory/rpm-standard/23.04/el9/stable/noarch/RPMS/perl-cpan-libraries/perl-JSON-Path-0.5-1.el9.noarch.rpm
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Debian 11" label="Debian 11">

> - Add the Centreon plugins' repository:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Add the Centreon plugins' repository:
```

```bash
wget -O- https://apt-key.centreon.com | gpg --dearmor | tee /etc/apt/trusted.gpg.d/centreon.gpg > /dev/null 2>&1
echo "deb https://packages.centreon.com/apt-plugins-stable/ $(lsb_release -sc) main" | tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/centreon-plugins.list
apt update
```

> - At this point, if you get this error:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At this point, if you get this error:
```

```text
W: GPG error: https://packages.sury.org/php bullseye InRelease: The following signatures couldn't be verified because the public key is not available: NO_PUBKEY B188E2B695BD4743
E: The repository 'https://packages.sury.org/php bullseye InRelease' is not signed.
```

You may solve it by running:

```bash
apt-key adv --fetch-keys 'https://packages.sury.org/php/apt.gpg' > /dev/null 2>&1
apt update
```

> - Install the agent and the plugin :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Install the agent and the plugin:
```

```bash
apt -y install centreon-nrpe4-daemon centreon-plugin-operatingsystems-linux-local
```

> - Change the IP address of `allowed_hosts` dans **/etc/nagios/nrpe.cfg** (replace `POLLER_IP_ADDRESS` with the IP address of the poller that will monitor the host).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Change the IP address for the `allowed_hosts` parameter in **/etc/nagios/nrpe.cfg** (replace `POLLER_IP_ADDRESS` with the IP address of the poller that will monitor the host).
```

```bash
sed -i 's/allowed_hosts=127.0.0.1,::1/allowed_hosts=POLLER_IP_ADDRESS/' /etc/nrpe/centreon-nrpe4.cfg
```

> - Restart the service to apply the new configuration:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Restart the service to apply the new configuration:
```

```bash
systemctl restart centreon-nrpe4.service
systemctl enable centreon-nrpe4.service
```

> - To monitor **systemd-journal**, you must run:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. To monitor **systemd-journal**, run the following commands:
```
